My friend’s family has spent over $400 in fees for AP tests. For his family, it's just fees. But for others, this is food on the table gone. The College Board is a non-profit organization that offers high school students the SAT as well as Advanced Placement courses (AP). With CEO David Coleman having a compensation of more than $2 million per year, this non-profit acts more like a monopoly than a “non-profit”. Not to mention the over $1 billion annual revenue the organization gains with SAT & AP test fees. I believe that the social injustice of the College Board should be taught in all schools today so that students can learn about the systems they affect and are a part of. Doing so will allow students to speak out when they see monopolies like this, capitalizing on the ambition of classmates right next to them.
College Board’s motives should be taught in school so students can understand how their payments for a test fee can affect other students who can’t afford these fees. The motive of the College Board is to bring profit to itself, not help outstanding students who come from poorer incomes. For the SAT, these fees can add up rapidly. Susan Adamn, a senior editor for Forbes education coverage writes that “...the SAT confers an unfair advantage on wealthy families who can pay for prep, which runs as high as $1,000 an hour” (Adams 13). You can come into the SAT with an unfair advantage by paying money, lots of money. This creates a divide between people who can pay for this kind of prep and people who can’t pay up. CEO of College Board Coleman knows about this divide as well. When College Board and Khan Academy partnered to provide free SAT prep to students, Valerie Strauss, an education writer from Washington Post quotes from an interview, “He called the College Board-Khan Academy partnership on SAT coaching ‘a bad day for them’ ” (Strauss 13). Adding onto the idea that Coleman knows and does not care for this divide.
Talking about monopolies can help other students realize the systems they are a part of. This could improve a lot of student’s health overall. Many ambitious students would do anything to get a higher score on the SAT or any similar test. The College Board knows this, and profits off of these determined students who have the money to pay for all the fees the organizations throw at them. Pushing these students to take all of these tests can have a real effect on the student's health. Student Mackenzie Gleysteen, a high school student states that “In addition to taking all of the AP courses I could handle, I spent four hours a week at a test prep center, even during the summers, to help increase my standardized test scores for my target schools” (Gleysteen 6). Spending over 4 hours a week to just get a better test score is going to affect even the most determined students. Taking all the AP courses just to look better on college applications will also have a lasting effect on the student's health. The College Board is profiting off of these determined students' health by offering all of these AP courses and wanting better and better test scores.
The social injustice of the College Board should be taught in all schools today so students know the monopolies they are a part of. Doing this will allow students to better the health of the students around them. The College Board gives unequal opportunities to people of different wealth classes. This issue is essential, as many students over bear themselves with all of these courses just to look better on a college application. Knowing where these tests come from can allow students to better understand monopolies and why they work. Many of the College Board’s actions are already starting to be accounted for. In California, public universities no longer need students to take the SAT. One way to act now is to use these new laws for your benefit.