Lord of the Flies is a novel written by William Golding which follows the story of a group of young boys stuck on an island trying to survive. At first, the island is peaceful with the boys electing a leader to follow and rules to abide by. In the end, the island has claimed multiple lives with the boys turning into savages overlooking what they have become. In William Golding’s Lord of the Flies, Roger changes drastically throughout the novel from being someone civilized by societal norms to someone violent with no disregard for their actions. At the beginning of the novel, Roger still holds the moral compass he had before he crashed onto the island due to him still having his civility from societal norms. When Roger and Henry were sitting together by the water, “Roger stooped, picked up a stone, aimed, and threw it at Henry— threw it to miss … Here, invisible yet strong, was the taboo of the old life.” (Golding 87). At the beginning of the novel, Roger will not throw stones directly at Henry due to the moral compass he still held from his past life before the island. This shows that the few days after the crash, Roger is still civilized because he still has those societal norms still in his head. Later in the novel, Roger still has most of the societal norms the boys had when they crashed into the island. Although, this normality starts to deteriorate as soon as Roger starts to realize there is no authority present on the island. When Ralph and Roger were sitting next to each other, Roger didn’t talk about anything but instead was “...banging his silly wooden stick against something” (Golding 174). By the middle of the novel, Roger has still not drastically changed from the beginning of the novel and still is somewhat civil in terms of living on the island. Although, this quote also shows that Roger is starting to lose some civility by causing a small fuss by striking his wooden stick against something. At the end of the novel, Roger has completely lost all societal norms and has become overly violent to the other boys on the island. This is a drastic change from the start of the novel, to now. In the last act of the book, Ralph talks to old group members and learns that he will be hunted by Jack’s tribe the following day. During this talk, he also notices that “Roger sharpened a stick at both ends” (Golding 273). This quote directly shows the transition from civility and savagery by comparing the last quote to this quote. In the last quote, the stick was nothing more than a small silly wooden object that Roger would just play with. In this quote, however, Ralph notices that Roger is planning to kill him tomorrow by sharpening that wooden stick. This shows that Roger has lost all societal norms and has become violent and savage by the end of the novel.