Snake skin can be used to make many kinds of things humans  use today, like purses and wallets. They should not be killing snakes for the their skin for products as they do not have the right to kill the snakes. If the snake skin is gone, the snakes will live for a few days, and then die from dehydration. “Dailymail.co.uk” says “The snakes maybe cold blooded but if you kill them for there skin you are cold hearted.”  Snakes should not be killed because the population is growing low and also because snake of any kind should live freely like us humans and enter the contest which are useless for people cause they will get fined. This is why we shouldn't kill the snakes even though they give us leather and because there population is growing low and because you should not do the python hunt!

Snakes should not be killed for their skin because the population is growing slim. The population is low for snakes because of poachers and people wanting their skin to make into leather. According to the website “dailymail.co.uk” states “...4.7 million snakes died because people take the skin and use it  for fashion purses and other things people do not need.”Just because you like leather does not mean you should kill them cause that affects the food chain. 

Snakes are animals and like us humans, snakes have skin. How would you feel  if your skin is being used to make leather? Well not so good right, but if us humans do not take the skin for other animals that is not ours. According to the website,” www.democraticunderground.com” states”Visitors can participate by skinning the animals and take the skin of the snakes too, and wait for some time and get there leather back. This is why don’t go for that sinking of snakes, you would not like it.

Snakes should not be used for certain contest they should live freely in the wild. If snakes should be killed just for this certain contest called the python hunt. According to the website “wired.com” states “ 
People do the python challenge by claiming 1.6 million acres of swamp and sawgrass to catch to humanely kill the scally menace. I do not think you will want to enter this contest now.              

In conclusion I think that you should not kill snakes and take their skin. These reasons prove that snake skin is the skin you do not want to mess with. These reasons also prove that the snakes should not be taken from snakes and they should live freely where ever they want just like us humans. I recommend you to not go in the python hunt contest unless you want to be cold hearted. This is why snakes should freely in the wild and population should stay in a reasonable amount, also they should not be killed because of the python hunt or for making leather out of there skin.